README.md, before:

![BPMON](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/unprofession-al/bpmon/master/bpmon.png "BPMON")

Business Process Monitor that uses Icinga as service health source. BPMON allows
you to compose *Business Processes* (BPs) and their *Key Performance Indicators*
(KPIs) using the services you already have in Icinga! BPMON ...

* ... *reads* the states of services defined, ...
* ... *evaluates* those states, ...
* ... feeds the results results to an InfluxDB in order to *keep track of the history* ...
* ... and/or triggers a command to perform actions such as *alarming*.

BPMON does not need to be run as a server. Run BPMON via Jenkins, Cron or
manually as needed.

## Installation

To install BPmon, you need Go 1.7.

Simply run the following command (don't forget the three dots at the end!):
```
# go get -u github.com/unprofession-al/bpmon/...
```

## Configure BPMOM

BPMONs global settings are configured via a simple config file written in YAML.
The config file can hold multiple *sections* (separat configurations) that enables 
a decent amount of flexibility in combination with YAMLs *anchors*. Let's have 
a look at an example:

```yaml
---
# The default section is - as suggested - read by default. Note the '&default'
# notation; this is known an an 'anchor' and allows you to reuse the settings
# in other sections...
default: &default
  # First BPMON needs to have access to your Icinga2 API. Learn more on by reading 
  # https://docs.icinga.com/icinga2/latest/doc/module/icinga2/chapter/icinga2-api.
  icinga:
    server: icinga.example.com
    port: 5665
    pass: youllneverguess
    user: bpmon
    proto: https
  # Also the connection to the InfluxDB is required in order to persist the
  # state for reporting and such. 
  influx:
    connection:
      server: influx.example.com
      port: 8086
      proto: http
    database: bpmon
    # If a state is 'OK' only save it to InfluxDB if its an BP measurement 
    # (e.g. do not persist 'OK' states for KPIs and services for the sake of
    # a small amount of data). In that case BP 'OK' states are saved as 
    # 'heart beat' of BPMON.
    save_ok: [ BP ]
    # This will tell BPMON to compare the current status against the last 
    # status saved in InfluxDB and adds some values to the measurement 
    # accordingly. This then allows to generate reports such as 'Tell me
    # only when a status is changed from good to bad'. This only runs against
    # types listed in 'save_ok' since only these are persisted 'correctly'.
    get_last_status: true
  # Define your office hours et al. according to your service level 
  # agreements (SLA). You can later reference them in your BP definitions.
  availabilities:
    7x24:
      monday:    [ "allday" ]
      tuesday:   [ "allday" ]
      wednesday: [ "allday" ]
      thursday:  [ "allday" ]
      friday:    [ "allday" ]
      saturday:  [ "allday" ]
      sunday:    [ "allday" ]
    9to5:
      monday:    [ "09:00:00-17:00:00" ]
      tuesday:   [ "09:00:00-17:00:00" ]
      wednesday: [ "09:00:00-17:00:00" ]
      thursday:  [ "09:00:00-17:00:00" ]
      friday:    [ "09:00:00-17:00:00" ]
      saturday:  [ "09:00:00-17:00:00" ]
      sunday:    [ "09:00:00-17:00:00" ]
test:
  # Inherit all settings fron the default anchor and extend/overwrite
  <<: *default
  influx:
    database: bpmont
  availabilities:
    officeHours:
      monday:    [ "09:00:00-12:00:00", "13:30:00-17:00:00" ]
      tuesday:   [ "09:00:00-12:00:00", "13:30:00-17:00:00" ]
      wednesday: [ "09:00:00-12:00:00", "13:30:00-17:00:00" ]
      thursday:  [ "09:00:00-12:00:00", "13:30:00-17:00:00" ]
      friday:    [ "09:00:00-12:00:00", "13:30:00-17:00:00" ]
alarming:
  <<: *default
  # Extend the default rules; in that case: Do not run the alarming command
  # if a critical service is aready aknowledged to avoid alarm spamming.
  rules:
    25:
      must: [ critical, acknowledged ]
      then: ok
  influx:
    get_last_status: false
  # If a service is failed, this command (rendered as a golang template) is 
  # printed to the stdout. This allows to easily wrap BPMON into an eval
  # statement in your shell script.
  trigger:
    template: |
        curl -X POST https://alarming.example.com/trigger -d '[{{- range $index, $elem := . -}}
          {{- if $index }},{{ end -}}
            {{- "{" }} "name": "{{ .Name }}", "services": ["
              {{- range $index, $elem := .Children -}}
                {{- if $index}},"{{ end -}}
                {{- range $index, $elem := .Children -}}
                  {{- if $index }}","{{ end -}}
                  {{- $elem.Name -}}
                {{- end -}}"
              {{- end -}}]
            {{- "}" -}}
          {{- end -}}]'
```

Run the following command to check your configuration and see how it comes
together with the defaults set by BPMON:

```
# bpmon -c [path_to_the_config] -s [name_of_the_section_to_check] config
```

For example:

```
# bpmon -c ./cfg.yaml -s default config
```

## Define *Business Processes*

Now that BPMON is set up, lets define a *business process*. Again, we do that 
via YAML, a file per *business process*:

```yaml
---
# Give it a name. Names can be changed anytime...
name: Application X
# Also give it an ID. This is used to store results in the database and
# therefore should not be changed.
id: app_x
# Tell BPMON during what time the process needs to be avalable. Remember
# the availabilities section from the global configuration...? This links 
# there.
availability: 9to5
# You can also specify a 'responsible' string. This string can then be used in
# the trigger template. This could be for example trigger a specific http
# end point, pass some uri parameters, send an email to a specific address etc.
# The 'responsible' string is inherited by its KPIs if not overwritten...
responsible: app.team@example.com
# Now the KPIs...
kpis:
  - 
    # We already know the name and ID part...
    name: Load Balancer Availability
    id: lb_availability
    # The 'operatinon' defines how the services must be evaluated. Possible
    # options are:
    # * AND:          All services need to be 'OK' for the KPI to be 'OK'.
    # * OR:           At least one sf its services needs to fo 'OK'.
    # * MIN x:        Where x is an integer. A minimum number of x services
    #                 need to be 'OK'
    # * MINPERCENT x:  As 'MIN', but in percent.
    operation: OR
    # Again, a 'responsible' string can be specified in order not to inherit
    # from the parent BP.
    responsible: infra.team@example.com
    # And now the processes. Host and service relate to how you named those
    # things in your Icinga2 setup.
    services:
      - { host: haproxy1.example.com, service: ping } 
      - { host: haproxy2.example.com, service: ping }
  - name: App Nodes Availability
    id: app_availability
    operation: MINPERCENT 50
    services:
      - { host: app1.example.com, service: api_health, responsible: engineering.team@example.com }
      - { host: app2.example.com, service: api_health }
      - { host: app3.example.com, service: api_health }
      - { host: app4.example.com, service: api_health }
```

Place your business processes in a directory and point BPMON there to execute:

```
# bpmon -c ./cfg.yaml -s default -b ./bp.d/ run
```

## Run

```
# bpmon -h
Montior business processes composed of Icinga checks

Usage:
  bpmon [command]

Available Commands:
  config      Print the configurantion used to stdout
  run         Run all business process checks and print to stdout
  trigger     Run all business process checks and trigger a custom command if issue occure
  write       Insert data into InfluxDB

Flags:
  -b, --bp string        path to business process configuration files (default "/etc/bpmon/bp.d")
  -c, --cfg string       path to the configuration file (default "/etc/bpmon/cfg.yaml")
  -p, --pattern string   pattern of business process configuration files to process (default "*.yaml")
  -s, --section string   name of the section to be read (default "default")

Use "bpmon [command] --help" for more information about a command.
```

Commit message:

Updated Readme to cover defaultFields, default_tags and influx.connection.timeout

README.md, after:

![BPMON](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/unprofession-al/bpmon/master/bpmon.png "BPMON")

Business Process Monitor that uses Icinga as service health source. BPMON allows
you to compose *Business Processes* (BPs) and their *Key Performance Indicators*
(KPIs) using the services you already have in Icinga! BPMON ...

* ... *reads* the states of services defined, ...
* ... *evaluates* those states, ...
* ... feeds the results results to an InfluxDB in order to *keep track of the history* ...
* ... and/or triggers a command to perform actions such as *alarming*.

BPMON does not need to be run as a server. Run BPMON via Jenkins, Cron or
manually as needed.

## Installation

To install BPmon, you need Go 1.7.

Simply run the following command (don't forget the three dots at the end!):
```
# go get -u github.com/unprofession-al/bpmon/...
```

## Configure BPMOM

BPMONs global settings are configured via a simple config file written in YAML.
The config file can hold multiple *sections* (separat configurations) that enables 
a decent amount of flexibility in combination with YAMLs *anchors*. Let's have 
a look at an example:

```yaml
---
# The default section is - as suggested - read by default. Note the '&default'
# notation; this is known an an 'anchor' and allows you to reuse the settings
# in other sections...
default: &default
  # First BPMON needs to have access to your Icinga2 API. Learn more on by reading 
  # https://docs.icinga.com/icinga2/latest/doc/module/icinga2/chapter/icinga2-api.
  icinga:
    server: icinga.example.com
    port: 5665
    pass: youllneverguess
    user: bpmon
    proto: https
  # Also the connection to the InfluxDB is required in order to persist the
  # state for reporting and such. 
  influx:
    connection:
      server: influx.example.com
      port: 8086
      proto: http
      # the timeout is read as a go (golang) duration, please refer to 
      # https://golang.org/pkg/time/#Duration for a detailed explanation.
      timeout: 2s
    database: bpmon
    # If a state is 'OK' only save it to InfluxDB if its an BP measurement 
    # (e.g. do not persist 'OK' states for KPIs and services for the sake of
    # a small amount of data). In that case BP 'OK' states are saved as 
    # 'heart beat' of BPMON.
    save_ok: [ BP ]
    # This will tell BPMON to compare the current status against the last 
    # status saved in InfluxDB and adds some values to the measurement 
    # accordingly. This then allows to generate reports such as 'Tell me
    # only when a status is changed from good to bad'. This only runs against
    # types listed in 'save_ok' since only these are persisted 'correctly'.
    get_last_status: true
    # default tags and default fields can be set in order to full allow you
    # to add either tags or fields according to your need to all entries 
    # that BPMON is going to persist to InfluxDB. In this example, the field 
    # 'annotated' is false (boolean). With an some custom tool or script this 
    # field can be used to query for example all status changes from 'good' 
    # to 'bad', add an anntation such as a reason and toggle the 'annotated'
    # field to true.
    # 'default_tags' is read as a map of strings while 'default_fields' is
    # a map of interface{}s
    default_tags: {}
    default_field:
      annotated: false
  # Define your office hours et al. according to your service level 
  # agreements (SLA). You can later reference them in your BP definitions.
  availabilities:
    7x24:
      monday:    [ "allday" ]
      tuesday:   [ "allday" ]
      wednesday: [ "allday" ]
      thursday:  [ "allday" ]
      friday:    [ "allday" ]
      saturday:  [ "allday" ]
      sunday:    [ "allday" ]
    9to5:
      monday:    [ "09:00:00-17:00:00" ]
      tuesday:   [ "09:00:00-17:00:00" ]
      wednesday: [ "09:00:00-17:00:00" ]
      thursday:  [ "09:00:00-17:00:00" ]
      friday:    [ "09:00:00-17:00:00" ]
      saturday:  [ "09:00:00-17:00:00" ]
      sunday:    [ "09:00:00-17:00:00" ]
test:
  # Inherit all settings fron the default anchor and extend/overwrite
  <<: *default
  influx:
    database: bpmont
  availabilities:
    officeHours:
      monday:    [ "09:00:00-12:00:00", "13:30:00-17:00:00" ]
      tuesday:   [ "09:00:00-12:00:00", "13:30:00-17:00:00" ]
      wednesday: [ "09:00:00-12:00:00", "13:30:00-17:00:00" ]
      thursday:  [ "09:00:00-12:00:00", "13:30:00-17:00:00" ]
      friday:    [ "09:00:00-12:00:00", "13:30:00-17:00:00" ]
alarming:
  <<: *default
  # Extend the default rules; in that case: Do not run the alarming command
  # if a critical service is aready aknowledged to avoid alarm spamming.
  rules:
    25:
      must: [ critical, acknowledged ]
      then: ok
  influx:
    get_last_status: false
  # If a service is failed, this command (rendered as a golang template) is 
  # printed to the stdout. This allows to easily wrap BPMON into an eval
  # statement in your shell script.
  trigger:
    template: |
        curl -X POST https://alarming.example.com/trigger -d '[{{- range $index, $elem := . -}}
          {{- if $index }},{{ end -}}
            {{- "{" }} "name": "{{ .Name }}", "services": ["
              {{- range $index, $elem := .Children -}}
                {{- if $index}},"{{ end -}}
                {{- range $index, $elem := .Children -}}
                  {{- if $index }}","{{ end -}}
                  {{- $elem.Name -}}
                {{- end -}}"
              {{- end -}}]
            {{- "}" -}}
          {{- end -}}]'
```

Run the following command to check your configuration and see how it comes
together with the defaults set by BPMON:

```
# bpmon -c [path_to_the_config] -s [name_of_the_section_to_check] config
```

For example:

```
# bpmon -c ./cfg.yaml -s default config
```

## Define *Business Processes*

Now that BPMON is set up, lets define a *business process*. Again, we do that 
via YAML, a file per *business process*:

```yaml
---
# Give it a name. Names can be changed anytime...
name: Application X
# Also give it an ID. This is used to store results in the database and
# therefore should not be changed.
id: app_x
# Tell BPMON during what time the process needs to be avalable. Remember
# the availabilities section from the global configuration...? This links 
# there.
availability: 9to5
# You can also specify a 'responsible' string. This string can then be used in
# the trigger template. This could be for example trigger a specific http
# end point, pass some uri parameters, send an email to a specific address etc.
# The 'responsible' string is inherited by its KPIs if not overwritten...
responsible: app.team@example.com
# Now the KPIs...
kpis:
  - 
    # We already know the name and ID part...
    name: Load Balancer Availability
    id: lb_availability
    # The 'operatinon' defines how the services must be evaluated. Possible
    # options are:
    # * AND:          All services need to be 'OK' for the KPI to be 'OK'.
    # * OR:           At least one sf its services needs to fo 'OK'.
    # * MIN x:        Where x is an integer. A minimum number of x services
    #                 need to be 'OK'
    # * MINPERCENT x:  As 'MIN', but in percent.
    operation: OR
    # Again, a 'responsible' string can be specified in order not to inherit
    # from the parent BP.
    responsible: infra.team@example.com
    # And now the processes. Host and service relate to how you named those
    # things in your Icinga2 setup.
    services:
      - { host: haproxy1.example.com, service: ping } 
      - { host: haproxy2.example.com, service: ping }
  - name: App Nodes Availability
    id: app_availability
    operation: MINPERCENT 50
    services:
      - { host: app1.example.com, service: api_health, responsible: engineering.team@example.com }
      - { host: app2.example.com, service: api_health }
      - { host: app3.example.com, service: api_health }
      - { host: app4.example.com, service: api_health }
```

Place your business processes in a directory and point BPMON there to execute:

```
# bpmon -c ./cfg.yaml -s default -b ./bp.d/ run
```

## Run

```
# bpmon -h
Montior business processes composed of Icinga checks

Usage:
  bpmon [command]

Available Commands:
  config      Print the configurantion used to stdout
  run         Run all business process checks and print to stdout
  trigger     Run all business process checks and trigger a custom command if issue occure
  write       Insert data into InfluxDB

Flags:
  -b, --bp string        path to business process configuration files (default "/etc/bpmon/bp.d")
  -c, --cfg string       path to the configuration file (default "/etc/bpmon/cfg.yaml")
  -p, --pattern string   pattern of business process configuration files to process (default "*.yaml")
  -s, --section string   name of the section to be read (default "default")

Use "bpmon [command] --help" for more information about a command.
```
